---
title: What is AI?
---

# What is AI?

<br>
To appreciate the complexity of this question, first ask yourself: how would <i>you</i> define AI? 

<br>
Perhaps, you might suggest that AI consists of machines that can think as humans do.

<br>
But what does it mean to <i>think</i> as humans do? Surely, you must think in order to multiply large numbers in your head -- but it would be dissatisfying to award a computer the title of AI based solely on its ability to multiply those same numbers.

<br>
A more satisfying answer, proposed by Alan Turing in 1950 and later known as the Turing test, is that a machine could be said to be <i>thinking</i> if it could carry on a text conversation that was indistinguishable from a conversation with a human being. To pass a well-designed Turing test, a machine would have to use natural language, reason, have knowledge, and learn.

<br>
Of course, building a machine that converses like a human is a lofty goal, so AI researchers started with a more approachable goal of building a machine that plays games like a human. In the 1950s and early 1960s, they succeeded in building checkers and chess programs of sufficient skill to challenge a respectable amateur.

<br>
In the following decades, AI advanced to the point of beating the world champion in the world’s hardest board game, describing pictures in natural language, and holding simple goal-directed dialogue (such as in virtual assistants). While AI is still far from passing a well-designed Turing test, much progress has been and will likely continue to be made.

<br>
That being said, progress in AI is often surrounded by hype that greatly inflates people's perceptions of the capabilities of AI. <!--To understand the cause and inaccuracy of such hype-->

<!--distinction between 2 forms of AI. Strong AI vs Weak AI. Strong AI is how we’ve been thinking of AI from the beginning -- is the intelligence of a machine that could successfully perform any intellectual task that a human being can. Appeals to the notion of AI having some kind of consciousness, sentience or mind.
Weak AI is a more applied, and at least presently, realist, form of AI -- focused on one narrow task. Game solvers. Image classifiers/creators. Dialogue agents that match user input to predefined responses.
To gain a better understanding of 
In this unit, we will learn about the history of AI research-->
